Which of the following statements correctly describe data and data analysis? Select all that apply.
  Data analysis involves collecting, transforming, and organizing data.
  Data is a collection of facts.
  Data analysis is creating new ways of understanding the unknown using raw data.

Fill in the blank: Data science involves using _____ data to create new ways of modeling and understanding the unknown.
  raw 

Which of the following activities are elements of data-driven decision-making? Select all that apply.
  Determine the problem to be solved

A business wants to grow its sales by 10% in the next 12 months. The data team helps achieve this goal by collecting data about current sales, their target market, and their competitors. This helps them identify the difference between where they are today and where they want to be in a year. What does this scenario describe?
  Gap analysis

Fill in the blank: Data analysts use a problem-oriented approach in order to _____, describe, and solve problems. 
  identify

Which of the following is NOT a key aspect of analytical thinking? 
  Intuition

A junior data analyst at a construction company develops a plan about a home-remodeling project. They employ analytical thinking to stay focused and on track. They also consider how to improve the quality and usefulness of the data they collect. Which aspect of analytical thinking does this scenario describe?
  Visualization

What is the purpose of the five whys?
  To reveal the root cause of a problem

A data professional is always interested in learning new skills and gaining knowledge. They often seek out challenging assignments at work and professional development experiences. Which analytical skill does this scenario describe?
  Curiosity

Which of the following examples demonstrate data-driven decision-making? Select all that apply.
  A hospital uses statistics in health records to identify patients who may be at risk for certain diseases.
  A grocery store polls customers about their brand preferences, then uses the survey results to determine which items to   stock.
  A manufacturing company uses documented information about production processes to improve efficiency.
















