The process presented as part of the Google Data Analytics Certificate is one that will be valuable to you as you keep moving forward in your career:
  Ask: business challenge, objective, or question
  Prepare: data generation, collection, storage, and data management
  Process: data cleaning and data integrity
  Analyze: data exploration, visualization, and analysis
  Share: communicating and interpreting results 
  Act:  putting  insights to work to solve the problem

EMC's data analysis process
EMC Corporation's data analytics process is cyclical with six steps:
  Discovery
  Pre-processing data
  Model planning
  Model building
  Communicate results
  Operationalize
EMC Corporation is now Dell EMC. This model, created by David Dietrich, reflects the cyclical nature of typical business projects. The phases aren’t static milestones; each step connects and leads to the next, and eventually repeats. Key questions help analysts test whether they have accomplished enough to move forward and ensure that teams have spent enough time on each of the phases and don’t start modeling before the data is ready. It is a little different from the data analysis process on which this program is based on, but it has some core ideas in common: the first phase is interested in discovering and asking questions; data has to be prepared before it can be analyzed and used; and then findings should be shared and acted on.

SAS's iterative process
An iterative data analysis process was created by a company called SAS, a leading data analytics solutions provider. It can be used to produce repeatable, reliable, and predictive results: 
  Ask
  Prepare
  Explore
  Model
  Implement
  Act
  Evaluate
The SAS model emphasizes the cyclical nature of their model by visualizing it as an infinity symbol. Its process has seven steps, many of which mirror the other models, like ask, prepare, model, and act. But this process is also a little different; it includes a step after the act phase designed to help analysts evaluate their solutions and potentially return to the ask phase again. 

Project-based data analytics process 
A project-based data analytics process has five simple steps:
  Identifying the problem
  Designing data requirements
  Pre-processing data
  Performing data analysis
  Visualizing data
This data analytics project process was developed by Vignesh Prajapati. It doesn’t include the sixth phase, or the act phase. However, it still covers a lot of the same steps described. It begins with identifying the problem, preparing and processing data before analysis, and ends with data visualization.

Big data analytics process
Authors Thomas Erl, Wajid Khattak, and Paul Buhler proposed a big data analytics process in their book, Big Data Fundamentals: Concepts, Drivers & Techniques. Their process suggests phases divided into nine steps:
  Business case evaluation
  Data identification
  Data acquisition and filtering
  Data extraction
  Data validation and cleaning 
  Data aggregation and representation
  Data analysis
  Data visualization
  Utilization of analysis results
This process appears to have three or four more steps than the previous models. But in reality, they have just broken down what has been referred to as prepare and process into smaller steps. It emphasizes the individual tasks required for gathering, preparing, and cleaning data before the analysis phase.
