The ask phase
  At the start of any successful data analysis, the data analyst:
    Takes the time to fully understand stakeholder expectations
    Defines the problem to be solved
    Decides which questions to answer in order to solve the problem
Qualifying stakeholder expectations means determining who the stakeholders are, what they want, when they want it, why they want it, and how best to communicate with them. Defining the problem means looking at the current state and identifying the ways in which it’s different from the ideal state. With expectations qualified and the problem defined, you can derive questions that will help achieve these goals.

The prepare phase
  In the prepare phase, the emphasis is on identifying and locating data you can use to answer your questions. In an upcoming course, you'll learn more about the different types of data and how to identify which kinds of data are most useful for solving a particular problem. You'll also discover why it's so important that data and results are objective and unbiased. In other words, any decisions made from an analysis should always be based on facts and be fair and impartial.

The process phase
  In this phase, the aim is to refine the data. Data analysts find and eliminate any errors and inaccuracies that can get in the way of results. This usually means:
  Cleaning data
  Transforming data into a more useful format
  Combining two or more datasets to make information more complete
  Removing outliers (data points that could skew the information)
After data analysts process data, they check the data they prepared to make sure it's complete and correct. This phase is all about getting the details right. Accordingly, the data analyst will refine strategies for verifying and sharing their data cleaning with stakeholders. In an upcoming course, you’ll use spreadsheets and structured query language, or SQL, to clean data.

The analyze phase
  With a solid foundation of well-defined questions and clean data, you’ll delve into the analyze phase. This is when you turn the data you’ve gathered, prepared, and processed into actionable information. Data analysts use many powerful tools in their work. In one upcoming course you'll continue using two of them: spreadsheets and SQL. In another upcoming course you’ll explore using the programming language Python to work with and analyze data.

The share phase
  This phase is exactly what it sounds like: It’s time to share what you’ve learned with your stakeholders! In this part of the program, you'll learn how data analysts interpret results and share them with others to help stakeholders make effective, data-driven decisions. In the share phase, visualization is a data analyst's best friend. So, an upcoming course will highlight why visualization is essential to getting others to understand what your data is telling you. 

The act phase
  The data analysis journey culminates in the act phase, when data insights are put to work. For you, this action involves preparing for your job search and having the chance to complete a case study project. It's a great opportunity for you to bring together everything you've worked on throughout this course. Plus, adding a case study to your portfolio helps you stand out from other candidates!
